<h1 class="kss-title kss-title-main"> Documentation </h1>

Styleguide organization

> 0.0:            Documentation link<br />
> 1.0 to 9.0:     Common scss used in all app (SMACSS categorization)<br />
> 10.0 to 90.0    App module scss (one for each app macro-section - theme and box-model varaibles included)<br />
> 100.0 to 190.0  Micro Module scss (indipendent asset - theme and box-model varaibles included)<br />
> 200.0 to 290.0  App module svg icon assets (automatically generated by grunticon grunt task)<br />
> 300.0           color palette (automatically generated by palettable grunt task)<br />

## 1.0 to 9.0 Common scss used in all app

The common SCSS are the only ones that can be used throughout the app. The only ones who can have dependence.
SMACCS categorization is:

- app.scss (Declaration of: Mixin, Operations, Imports)
- base.scss (Tools, Typography, Icon, Table, List, Form, Chart, ecc)
- layout.scss (Grid redefines, Common layout rules and behaviors, Common layout parts (header, navbar, footer, ecc))
- state.css (Visibility and Clearing classes, every change state and behavior classes)
- theme.css (Color palette variables definition and gradients definitions)

## 10.0 to 90.0 App module scss
Each app module has his scss. In this file we have the specific part of the module. If a part become used in other module we have to move from here to one of the common scss (base or layout scss for example)
In this module scss we have:

- module variables
- module theme variables
- module scss

Example

```sass
/* -----------------------------------------
   Module Name
--------------------------------------------
Content:
- ModuleName Variables
- ModuleName Theme Variables
- ModuleName
*/
/*
ModuleName

Styleguide 11.0
*/



/* Variables */
$FooterFunctions-height:45px + 2px;
$InvestmentPreTable2Wrapper-height:155px;



/* Theme Variables */



/*

TitlePage

Markup:
<h1 class="TitlePage">Pianificazione</h1>

Styleguide 11.1
*/
.TitlePage{
  margin:0 0 10px 0;
  font-size:42px;
  color:$body-txt-color1;
  ...
}
```

## 100.0 to 190.0 Micro Module scss

A micro module is an independent module without dependencies to work properly. It's written with OOCSS paradigms. It's located in the common module because it could be present in every part of the app. It is shared in all application.
As the module file, for each micro module file we have:
- module variables
- module theme variables
- module scss

Example of Module Completion Bar

```sass
/* -----------------------------------------
   Module Completion Bar
--------------------------------------------
Content:
- Completion Bar Variables
- Completion Bar Theme Variables
- Completion Bar
*/



/* Completion Bar Variables */
$completionpercentage-height:11px;



/* Completion Bar Theme Variables */
$completionpercentage-color:#6d7d8c;
$completionpercentage-border:#f5f5f5;
$completionpercentage-border2:#ebebeb;
$completionpercentage-bg-color:#c2c9d1;
$completionpercentage-bg-color2:#a4aeb7;
$completionpercentage-bg-color3:#87939f;
$completionpercentage-bg-color4:#f5f5f5;



/*
Module Completion Bar

Markup: 
<div class="Completion">
    <div class="CompletionBar Value100">
        <span class="CompletionValue">100%</span>
    </div>
</div>
<div class="Completion">
    <div class="CompletionBar Value50">
        <span class="CompletionValue">50%</span>
    </div>
</div>
<div class="Completion">
    <div class="CompletionBar Value10">
        <span class="CompletionValue">10%</span>
    </div>
</div>

Styleguide 100.0
*/
.Completion{
    @include border-radius(4px);
    margin-top:22px;
    position:relative;
    ...
}
```

## 200.0 to 290.0  App module svg icon assets

These page are automatically popolated by grunt grunticon task from image folder. Each modules (common module included) has his images folder. The grunticon task catch every .svg file and prepare a css scaffolding with a class for each images (fallback included). Each module has his styleguide page for their icon assets. We can look for a calss name and use it with @include scss rule.
To be sure the svg icon assets module page is visible in the styleguide list we have to declare his existence in style.scss file who include all scss files from relative module scss folder.

Example

```sass
/*
Icons Common

<div style="position:absolute !important; top:100px; height:80%; width:100%;">
    <iframe src="../modules/common/images/generated/preview.html" style="width:100%; height:100%; border:0;"></iframe>
</div>

Styleguide 200.0
*/
```

## 300.0 color palette

This page is automatically created by grunt palettable task from scss files. The palettable task parses every .scss file finding the color variables and writing them into a file.
We link this file into styleguide section (as 300.0 section) for a better consultation.

# Grunt Tasks

We have these fantastics grunt commands about frontend automation:

- grunt watch (sass polling for changes - NB: if you change app.scss you need to run "grunt serve" again because the app modularity)
- grunt styleguide (generate the styleguide pages updating new sections)
- grunt grunticon (clean svg images and create scaffolding css assets)
- grunt csslint (test css)
- grunt htmlvalidator (test angular html views)

## Format

The text from here on is mostly taken from the [KSS specification](https://github.com/kneath/kss/blob/master/SPEC.md).

Unlike TomDoc, not every CSS rule should be documented. You should document a rule declaration when the rule can accurately describe a visual UI element in the styleguide. Each element should have one documentation block describing that particular UI element's various states.

KSS documentation is hierarchical in nature — any documentation blocks at any point within the styleguide hierarchy apply to the documentation blocks beneath that level. This means that documentation for 2.1 applies to documentation for 2.1.3.

The basic format for KSS documentation can be best explained in an example:

```css
/*
A button suitable for giving stars to someone.

:hover             - Subtle hover highlight.
.stars-given       - A highlight indicating you've already given a star.
.stars-given:hover - Subtle hover highlight on top of stars-given styling.
.disabled          - Dims the button to indicate it cannot be used.

Styleguide 2.1.3.
*/
a.button.star{
  ...
}
a.button.star.stars-given{
  ...
}
a.button.star.disabled{
  ...
}
```

Each KSS documentation block consists of three parts: a description of what the element does or looks like, a list of modifier classes or pseudo-classes and how they modify the element, and a reference to the element's position in the styleguide.

Usually using less os sass or other css pre-processor we can use // comment instead of /*. In this dynamic modular project configuration we need to use only the /* css comment because we have more grunt task running that need to see this css comment /*. The last task will delete all comment for a clear and minified app.css file.

## Style Documentation

The description should be plain sentences of what the CSS rule or hierarchy does and looks like. A good description gives guidance toward the application of elements the CSS rules style.

CSS rules that depend on specific HTML structures should describe those structures using `<element#id.class:pseudo>` notation. For example:

```less
/*
A feed of activity items. Within each <section.feed>, there should be many
<article>s which are the  feed items.
  */
```

To describe the status of a set of rules, you should prefix the description with **Experimental** or **Deprecated**.

**Experimental** indicates CSS rules that apply to experimental styling. This can be useful when testing out new designs before they launch (staff only), alternative layouts in A/B tests, or beta features.

```less
/*
Experimental: An alternative signup button styling used in AB Test #195.
*/
```

**Deprecated** indicates that the rule is slated for removal. Rules that are deprecated should not be used in future development. This description should explain what developers should do when encountering this style.

```less
/*
Deprecated: Styling for legacy wikis. We'll drop support for these wikis on
July 13, 2007.
*/
```

## The modifiers section

If the UI element you are documenting has multiple states or styles depending on added classes or pseudo-classes, you should document them in the modifiers section.

```less
/*
:hover             - Subtle hover highlight.
.stars-given       - A highlight indicating you've already given a star.
.stars-given:hover - Subtle hover highlight on top of stars-given styling.
.disabled          - Dims the button to indicate it cannot be used.
*/
```

## The styleguide section

If the UI element you are documenting has an example in the styleguide, you should reference it using the "Styleguide [ref]" syntax.

```less
/*
Styleguide 2.1.3.
*/
```

References should be integer sections separated by periods. Each period denotes a hierarchy of the styleguide. Styleguide references can point to entire sections, a portion of the section, or a specific example.

If there is no example, then you must note that there is no reference.

```less
/*
No styleguide reference.
*/
```

## The markup section

*Note: This section is unofficial, and only implemented in `kss-node`.*

If you wish to include example HTML for the UI element you are documenting, you should include an additional paragraph with sample markup and prefix it with `Markup:`. You should also note the placement of modifier classes with `{$modifiers}`, like so:

```less
/*
Buttons

:hover - Highlight the button when hovering.

Markup:
<a href="#" class="button {$modifiers}">Link</a>
<button class="button {$modifiers}">Button</button>

Styleguide 2.1.3.
*/
```

If you're using the `kss-node` module or CLI, make sure not to include any double line-breaks, as only the first paragraph prefixed with `Markup:` will be included.

# Preprocessor Helper Documentation

If you use a CSS preprocessor like SCSS or LESS, you should document all helper functions (sometimes called mixins).

```less
/*
Creates a linear gradient background, from top to bottom.

$start - The color hex at the top.
$end   - The color hex at the bottom.

Compatible in IE6+, Firefox 2+, Safari 4+.
@mixin gradient($start, $end){
  ...
}
*/
```

Each documentation block should have a description section, parameters section, and compatibility section.  The description section follows the same guidelines as style documentation.

## The parameters section

If the mixin takes parameters, you should document each parameter and describe what sort of input it expects (hex, number, etc).

```less
/*
$start - The color hex at the top.
$end   - The color hex at the bottom.
*/
```

## The compatibility section

You must list out what browsers this helper method is compatible in.

```less
/*
Compatible in IE6+, Firefox 2+, Safari 4+.
*/
```

If you do not know the compatibility, you should state as such.

```less
/*
Compatibility untested.
*/
```

# Styleguide

In order to fully take advantage of KSS, you should create a living styleguide. A living styleguide is a *part of your application* and should include all of the CSS, Javascript, and layout the rest of your application does.

To get started quickly use the CLI tool, which supports custom templates too. If you're feeling game you can (and should) build it up from scratch using the module's API.

Overall, keep in mind that styleguides should adapt to the application they are referencing and be easy to maintain and as automatic as possible.

## Organization

The styleguide should be organized by numbered sections. These sections can go as deep as you like. Every element should have a numbered section to refer to. For example:

    1. Buttons
      1.1 Form Buttons
        1.1.1 Generic form button
        1.1.2 Special form button
      1.2 Social buttons
      1.3 Miscelaneous buttons
    2. Form elements
      2.1 Text fields
      2.2 Radio and checkboxes
    3. Text styling
    4. Tables
      4.1 Number tables
      4.2 Diagram tables

The goal here is to create an organizational structure that is flexible, but  rigid enough to be machine processed and referenced inside of documentation.

## Credits

This is a demo of [kss-node](http://github.com/hughsk/kss-node)'s built-in styleguide generator. The module is essentially a reimplementation of the [KSS](http://github.com/kneath/kss) Ruby parser, in Node:

The upshot of this is that KSS can be used for generating CSS documentation pages. This site is generated with the `kss-node` command-line tool used on this [demo project](https://github.com/hughsk/kss-node/tree/master/demo).

Check out the [project on Github](https://github.com/hughsk/kss-node) for more information, or read on for details on how to document your stylesheets for KSS.

Project & Task configuration by [Alessandro Violini](https://github.com/Violo/tools) ([@Violo](https://twitter.com/violo)) and [Emanuele Rampichini](https://github.com/lele85) ([@emanuele_r](https://twitter.com/emanuele_r)) [www.e-xtrategy.net](https:www.e-xtrategy.net/).


